Gold has taken a hit recently after a
rally so let's talk about the price
let's talk about some technologies and
let's talk about precious metals in
general is now the time to buy or to
sell you came here for the truth so
let's get into this right away 771
trillion dollars worth of gold lies
hidden in the oceans good luck getting
it so this article out of Forbes is
quite interesting in fact basically
they're trying to discuss these
technologies that haven't quite come on
board yet and that is to take gold from
the oceans so there is a miniscule
amount of gold available in the ocean
and if they develop a technology to
basically go through and mill it they
would be able to reach 771 trillion
dollars estimated within the world's
oceans nothing at this time has become
available that would make it even close
to worth it but should they be able to
do so it would be very profitable of
course that would do something to the
supply of gold but nothing really is on
the market as of now I just found it
interesting because I wanted to make a
couple points look at the Canadian oil
sands when you see how expensive it is
to get out of the ground a lot of dirt
tons and tons of it needs to be dug
through and then refined to such a
degree just to be able to get it out of
the ground then you look at the
operations for example in Brazil where
they go through tons and tons of rock in
order to grind it down and to try to get
this to become what they would need to
bend melt down into gold talking about a
powder that they get but it's still
profitable so you need to look at any
commodity as an individual not as a
whole and understand that each of these
different mines or processes
technologies are there and each one has
his own expenses has its own liabilities
the debt that they carry the prospects
that they have for the
future and so forth so the reason I
bring this up is specifically to talk
about that I hope that that was somewhat
interesting to you looking at this year
the Federal Reserve all of our friends
of course they have this meeting that
perhaps at the time that you are
watching this video it's already over
and done with the Federal Reserve is
expected to move forward with plans to
sell some of its roughly 3.7 trillion
dollars worth of bonds and mortgage
securities it amassed during the
financial crisis so it is expected at
the end of the meeting to announce the
plans that it's going to start selling
these off and reducing its massive
balance sheets the only thing that has
been supporting this stock market and
everything else has been the central
bank balance sheets should they get rid
of this it would be an absolute disaster
are they planning to create that
disaster well we'll see if other central
banks come in to basically pick up the
pieces well then we might not have such
a big problem we are seeing that already
but they would have to do so to the same
degree that the Federal Reserve is
pulling out at we're also seeing the
fact that the Federal Reserve has been
incapable of doing anything that they
say on time they engage in something
called Operation Twist which provided
absolutely no benefit to the market
during the time of operation to us and
then we had acute III which did actually
provide some sort of let's say revival
to the market because you pump new blood
into it and of course the zombies will
remain active looking at the precious
metals in relation to this we can see
that wherever there is tensions wherever
there's is uncertainty you will see
precious metals rising and that is
always bullish for other commodities as
well or some commodities and you'll
notice that when we look at precious
metals in general they seem to be a safe
haven so people run to that but what's
happening in the East not allowed to
talk about that here anymore
but over there in the east there's
always tensions but there's no tensions
for a few days all of a sudden gold
takes a dive and that's really what's
happening it's funny because the market
seems to have quite powerful amnesia
very very quickly all right looking at
this the dollar index has stated its
course strengthening and consolidation
in the past few trading sessions and
although the meeting of the Fed will be
a close watch for interest rate comments
talks of the balance G normalization
will also be an important point to look
for gold prices are expected to trade
lower on Tuesday gold at a time of this
video was trading around the 1,300 mark
and that is up from where it had been
you know in the previous month's so we
can see that this is all a result of the
tensions that have been building but the
Federal Reserve if they start to pull
back on their balance sheets then
everything is just fine
right well that's what they're
suggesting look at what has happened
with interest rates 2015 they decide
okay we're going to raise interest rates
but they set that in 2014 they said it
in 2013 and so on it took them years
just to get a little bit up and now it
has taken approximately two years to get
it up approximately 1% to increase the
interest rates by 1% it's a two years so
if it's going to be at that rate we are
going to take a long time then you add
in the bank trying to get rid of their
balance sheets this is just going to
spell a disaster for the future I don't
know how they're ever going to get away
with this we'll see gold prices could
likely find support at its $1,300 handle
over the next few months with a bearish
trend towards our 2012 50 your end that
basically just talks about what could
happen here if interest rates rise that
would obviously be seen as a strength in
the economy and this and that I don't
know what's going to happen exactly but
you know they could certainly continue
this for a long period of time but the
bubbles just going to continue to expand
because
it's not going at a rate that should be
the Federal Reserve all central banks in
fact react too slow they don't react
enough and you see the same thing
happening over and over again it doesn't
surprise me of course that's just the
way they are so now let me cover this
year very quickly all three main US
stock indexes ended all-time highs on
Tuesday as the Federal Reserve policy
makers became too deep a two-day policy
meeting in which they expected to
finalize the details of their plan to
begin slowly shrinking the bank balance
sheet four point five trillion dollars
okay that's how much do they have how
much did they expect to be able to
unload onto this market sure they might
be able to get rid of some of it but
four point five trillion dollars worth I
don't think so even half of that no not
gonna happen not without a disaster
anyway so let's quickly get into my
points here is now the time to buy gold
or is now the time to sell what about
silver well first let's talk about
precious metals in general I generally
regard gold and silver to be your
primaries by far in fact you would have
a portfolio of gold and silver I would
say as much as 90% of that maybe even
more to be within gold and silver
platinum and palladium are great I'm not
going to deny that but such a small
percentage because we really don't know
what will happen but sort of you know
and I don't necessarily look at the
price as a you know what to do about the
activity here I look at it as gold and
silver have been money before they have
the most history behind them and I think
that we should play it off like that
doesn't give you no platinum and
palladium
you know you know the short end of the
stick I just look at it that way so
that's my point on that and silver and
gold comparing the two a lot of people
put heavy influence on silver because it
has the higher upside potential I think
that industrially silver is more
important and we could see that the
increase in technology the more
pervasive technology becomes silver
becomes
worth more however it tends to light
behind gold so whenever there is a boom
we can see that gold goes first then it
becomes too expensive that starts to
push silver to become more expensive as
a result some sort of trades behind lags
behind that but what is happening with
the price of gold and silver most of the
people probably 95 percent of people
that own physical precious metals do not
sell their physical precious metals what
we are seeing is paper we are seeing
futures contracts and we are seeing ETFs
this is not real this is not an actual
precious metal in any way it's a piece
of paper and they were able to sell that
onto the market they don't even own it
they are doing all these kinds of
nefarious acts which caused the price to
fluctuate up or down I think that most
people in general who are getting into
physical precious metals will just hang
on regardless so we don't need to really
think about the price that's the way I
look at it does that mean you should
have a hundred percent in precious
metals I personally don't agree with
that but if you want to I mean by all
means a lot of people have a hundred
percent in stocks so why not 100 percent
of precious metals I personally don't
like that idea of a hundred percent of
anything I think that we can do better
than that I think that we can diversify
out as much as possible even within the
asset class itself if you have precious
metals if you have gold you want to just
have one type of gold you want to just
have a particular coin or do you want to
have ten different types of gold I think
that's much smarter I think that some
will have a premium on them others won't
do as well but ultimately you'd be able
to diversify within the asset class and
I think that is the smartest thing that
you can do now as a time for buying now
I don't really agree with timing on the
buying at all if people think that
tensions are going to ease a little bit
then you're going to see the price
coming down on gold but I don't really
look at it like that I look at it like
the more Eastern cultures tend to look
at it and that is you take gold you pass
it down from generation to generation
and you're able to
house wealth down that's the way it is
how many stocks have been around since
you know let's say three thousand years
ago well no that's really not the case
obviously I mean we're talking about two
different things but what I'm trying to
say is that you don't need to worry as
much about trading and the complexity of
it all with the equities when you're
going to give it to your kids do they
know what they're doing you can just
give gold coins or high karat jewelry as
these Eastern cultures do and they pass
down wealth it may not be for you that's
okay but I'm just saying that that seems
to be the way to go it's passing that
wealth others use real estate they have
portfolios of real estate that are being
managed by other people so the
generation that they pass it onto
doesn't need to necessarily worry about
anything I just seem that what what we
will look at with precious metals in
general is that the price is less
significant than most people really most
people talk about anyway I'm not one of
those that really chases price I simply
look at it as a way to pass wealth down
but once again diversification is key I
think that we can own a lot of different
assets even if they're very small
amounts I assure you you don't need to
have a lot of money to own some assets
that's very important to note even a few
dollars what allow you to buy into some
silver and you can get into real estate
investments for just a few thousand
dollars I assure you on that as well
I've consulted many people talking about
this I've thought about it from my
latest book so that's all I will say for
today I see a lot of infighting in
between those who are into precious
metals and those are into
cryptocurrencies and there's other
people who like both I don't get
involved in either I simply look at it
and I talk about what I see I'm just
giving my opinion on my observations and
then I take the historical information
and take the data try to put put that
all together piece it all together I
hope you do appreciate that if you do
and please give me a thumbs up and last
but not least don't forget to hit that
subscribe button this channel has been
you know under fire as of recent
you know recently and you've seen that
you know what's going on the tactics
that they're using so I do appreciate
when you subscribe to the channel when
you give me thumbs up when you comment
below when you help me out on Steam its
and and other platforms that I have as
well so that's all for this video
take care